## II. Data
### Sattalite imagery
For the assessment of NDVI values of vegetated areas in Upper Franconia, we use optical imagery of the Sentinel-2 satellite mission of the European Space Agency (ESA). The Sentinel-2 mission includes two polar-orbiting satellites with multi-spectral optical sensors for land surface monitoring. The MultiSpectral Instrument (MSI) sensor of the Sentinel-2 satellites comprises 13 spectral bands which acquire reflectance of visible light, near-infrared and short-wave infrared. The MSI system has a field of view of 290 km with a spatial resolution between 10m to 60m, depending on the spectral band. Both satellites share the same orbit and provide a minimum revisiting time of five days at the equator (Drusch et al., 2012; Spoto et al., 2012). Here, we use ~7,000 Sentinel-2 acquisitions of Upper Franconia of the Harmonized Sentinel-2 MSI collection provided by Google Earth Engine Data Catalog (Gorelick et al., 2017). For the Harmonized collection, the respective range of digital numbers (DN) has been already homogenized between different acquisitions.

### Land cover datasets
For the classification of surface land cover of Upper Franconia we refer to previously published maps of agricultural land cover of the years 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2022. The provided crop type maps are based on a time series of optical and synthetic aperture radar remote sensing acquisitions and follows a random forest classification approach (Blickensdörfer et al., 2022; Schwieder et al., 2022). In addition, forest areas of Upper Franconia as well as further non-vegetated areas are retrieved from the geographic database of the Bavarian surveying office (Landesamt für Digitalisierung, Breitband und Vermessung) Amtliches Topographisch-Kartographisches Informationssystem (ATKIS) which provides spatial information of different land cover such as infrastructure, built up, vegetated and water areas.

### Climate reanalysis data
Spatially resolved climate records of past decades of Upper Franconia are retrieved from the open available ERA5-Land climate reanalysis dataset covering the period 1950-today. By combining climate observations with model results, climate reanalysis provides spatially and temporally resolved datasets of past climate. ERA5-Land is a modified reanalysis product based on the land component of the global ERA5 climate reanalysis (Hersbach et al., 2020) by the Copernicus Climate Change Service (C3S) of the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts (ECMWF) which provides an improved spatial resolution of approximately 10km at hourly resolution (Muñoz Sabater, 2019). We use daily aggregates of mean air temperature at 2m above the Earth´s surface between 1993 and 2022 which are accessible via the Google Earth Engine service.

### SSP scenario
