### Spatial void-filling of vegetation areas with crop rotation 
The observation of multi-annual NDVI values and drought induced anomalies is restricted to areas with no major changes in vegetation structure because changes in land usage, such as crop rotation, will also result in a change in measured NDVI which is not necessarily related to heat and drought events. The remote sensing NDVI assessment is thus limited to selected forest and agricultural areas with no changes in land cover during the Sentinel-2 observation period (section 3.2) which represent ~58% of the total vegetated area of Upper Franconia. To present the potential change in NDVI during future decades and emission scenarios of entire Upper Franconia, we apply a spatial void-filling to interpolate remaining vegetated areas for which no direct NDVI measurement is available. Thereby, all agricultural and other vegetation areas which were excluded from the NDVI mask in section 3.2 are filled by an iterative approach based on a moving window. Initially the NDVI value of a pixel without measurement is estimated as the mean value of the neighboring pixels with a moving window of 3 by 3 pixels. Subsequently, the size of this window is iteratively increased until all data-voids are filled. Since voids in the NDVI maps are mainly caused by agricultural areas with crop rotation and other similar areas without dense tree cover, e.g. meadows, river floodplains or parks, the spatial interpolation is exclusively based on pixels which are no forest areas.  

### Deforestation scenario
Forest areas are known to modify the macroclimate by buffering extreme climate events such as heatwaves and drought (De Frenne et al., 2019; Lin et al., 2020). To demonstrate the impact of increasing deforestation on NDVI values, we estimate NDVI values of 2045-54 and 2085-94 by assuming a complete deforestation of entire Upper Franconia. Therefore, the ratio of mean annual NDVI values from 2016 to 2022 between forest and non-forest vegetation areas is calculated for each pixel any year (eq.4):

(eq.4)    α_Year=(〖NDVI〗_Year^(Non-Forest))/(〖NDVI〗_Year^Forest )     for 2016≤Year≤2022

Where 〖NDVI〗_Year^(Non-Forest) and 〖NDVI〗_Year^Forest are the annual NDVI value of each year of each pixel and α_Year is the ratio of both for the respective year and pixel. Thereafter, we calculate the mean ratio α_(2016-2022)^mod=1.102 between non-forest and forest areas by averaging α_Year of all years and pixels. To estimate NDVI values of Upper Franconia without forest areas, we then multiply the mean NDVI of 2016-2022 of all forest pixels by the conversion factor α_(2016-2022)^mod. Eventually, the linear regression function of non-forest areas (eq.3, section 3.5) is applied to all pixels to extrapolate future NDVI values of the periods 2045-54 and 2085-94 and emission scenarios (SSP1 & SSP5) under the assumption of a complete deforestation of Upper Franconia.
