### Extrapolation of future NDVI based on heatwave frequency
To extrapolate future changes in vegetation growth under the SSP1 and SSP5 emission scenarios, we estimate changes in NDVI values from the frequency of heatwave events. Therefore, the annual mean NDVI values derived from Sentinel-2 imagery (section 3.1) of each pixel, are aggregated by the respective number of annual heatwaves as reconstructed from the ERA5 reanalysis surface temperature (section 3.3). Mean NDVI values are specifically calculated for forest areas and other vegetated areas since different patterns of spectral reflectance have to be expected from deciduous and coniferous vegetation (Wong and Gamon, 2015; Ulsig et al., 2017). The number of annual heatwaves and respective mean NDVI values are then used to fit linear regression functions (Fig.2) which represent the relation between heatwave frequency and mean NDVI following (eq.2) and (eq.3) of forest and non-forest areas: 

(eq.2)     (NDVI)(2016-2022)^Forest=0.550-0.001×n(2016-2022)^heatwaves 
(eq.3)     (NDVI)(2016-2022)^(Non-Forest)=0.607-0.011×n(2016-2022)^heatwaves 

Where n(2016-2022)^heatwaves are the number of observed heatwaves based on the climate reanalysis data and (NDVI)(2016-2022)^Forest and (NDVI)(2016-2022)^(Non-Forest) are the respective predicted NDVI values based on the linear regression of forest and non-forest areas. 
Based on (eq.2&3) and the modelled frequency of future heatwaves under the SSP1 and SSP5 scenario (section 3.4), changes in NDVI are then estimated for the decades 2045-54 and 2085-94 by applying the linear regressions to the mean NDVI value of 2016-2022 of each pixel and the respective heatwave count. To demonstrate the changes in future NDVI to present day, we assume three different scenarios of heatwave frequency based on the mean ((NDVI)(SSP mean)) and maximum ((NDVI)(SSP max.)) number of heatwaves for every pixel during the periods 2045-54 and 2085-94. While (NDVI)(SSP mean) represents the estimated mean change in future NDVI compared to present day, (NDVI)(SSP max.) refers to the highest heatwave counts estimated for each pixel. The pixel-specific change in NDVI is denoted as relative change in percent compared to the mean NDVI of 2016-2022.