## II. Data
### Sattalite imagery
For the assessment of NDVI values of vegetated areas in Upper Franconia, we use optical imagery of the Sentinel-2 satellite mission of the European Space Agency (ESA). The Sentinel-2 mission includes two polar-orbiting satellites with multi-spectral optical sensors for land surface monitoring. The MultiSpectral Instrument (MSI) sensor of the Sentinel-2 satellites comprises 13 spectral bands which acquire reflectance of visible light, near-infrared and short-wave infrared. The MSI system has a field of view of 290 km with a spatial resolution between 10m to 60m, depending on the spectral band. Both satellites share the same orbit and provide a minimum revisiting time of five days at the equator (Drusch et al., 2012; Spoto et al., 2012). Here, we use ~7,000 Sentinel-2 acquisitions of Upper Franconia of the Harmonized Sentinel-2 MSI collection provided by Google Earth Engine Data Catalog (Gorelick et al., 2017). For the Harmonized collection, the respective range of digital numbers (DN) has been already homogenized between different acquisitions.

### Land cover datasets
For the classification of surface land cover of Upper Franconia we refer to previously published maps of agricultural land cover of the years 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2022. The provided crop type maps are based on a time series of optical and synthetic aperture radar remote sensing acquisitions and follows a random forest classification approach (Blickensdörfer et al., 2022; Schwieder et al., 2022). In addition, forest areas of Upper Franconia as well as further non-vegetated areas are retrieved from the geographic database of the Bavarian surveying office (Landesamt für Digitalisierung, Breitband und Vermessung) Amtliches Topographisch-Kartographisches Informationssystem (ATKIS) which provides spatial information of different land cover such as infrastructure, built up, vegetated and water areas.

### Climate reanalysis data
Spatially resolved climate records of past decades of Upper Franconia are retrieved from the open available ERA5-Land climate reanalysis dataset covering the period 1950-today. By combining climate observations with model results, climate reanalysis provides spatially and temporally resolved datasets of past climate. ERA5-Land is a modified reanalysis product based on the land component of the global ERA5 climate reanalysis (Hersbach et al., 2020) by the Copernicus Climate Change Service (C3S) of the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts (ECMWF) which provides an improved spatial resolution of approximately 10km at hourly resolution (Muñoz Sabater, 2019). We use daily aggregates of mean air temperature at 2m above the Earth´s surface between 1993 and 2022 which are accessible via the Google Earth Engine service.

### Regional Climate Data BAYWRF
Regional climate data in Upper Franconia comes from BAYWRF dataset (Collier and Mölg 2020). The BAYWRF data set is a high-resolution (1.5 km and 7.5 km) climate data set for Bavaria for the period September 1987 to August 2018. It contains a large number of climatological variables, also for different levels. Data from BAYWRF are available for download on the Open Science Framework (OSF; Collier, 2020; https://doi.org/10.17605/OSF.IO/AQ58B).

### SSP scenarios
For the future climate, we use GCM data coming from the Coupled Model Intercomparison Project, phase 6 (CMIP6) (Eyring et al. 2016; O'Neill et al. 2016). GCM data is available in different scenarios which describe a variety of possible socioeconomic futures (SSPs). A detailed description can be found in Gidden et al. (2019). For this study we used the SSP1-2.6 and the SSP5-8.5 scenario covering the widest range of possible pathways.
The GCM selection technique of Pickler and Mölg (2021) is used to evaluate the ability of GCMs for a specific region and research question. It assesses how well GCMs reproduce the average climate conditions and the spatiotemporal climate anomalies of atmospheric variables within in a defined area. The models were pre-culled based on the availability of meteorological variables at daily and monthly resolution for the historical and future simulation for a low emission SSP (SSP1-2.6) and a high emission SSP (SSP5-8.5). This reduced the selection to 107 realizations from a total of 24 models. ERA5 data (Hersbach et al. 2020) is used to compute the non-degenerate Empirical Orthogonal Functions (EOFs) of the variables at different levels. The analyzed area covers the European region (30°N-70°N, 50°W-40°E) for the time period of 1990 to 2014 (the end year of the historical simulations in CMIP6). Afterwards, we assessed the pre-selected CMIP6 realizations' fidelity in simulating these EOFs with 24 assessments in total. Additionally, we evaluated the simulation of the mean annual cycle and the statistical distributions with respect to Bavarian weather station data network of DWD for air temperature and precipitation. The result is a ranking of all evaluated models from which we used the best ranked model (MPI-ESM1-2-LR r29i1p1f1). The data can be downloaded here (https://esgf-node.llnl.gov/search/cmip6/).
