## III. Methods
### NDVI calculation
Multi-temporal NDVI maps of Upper Franconia are created from optical imagery via the Google Earth Engine service (Gorelick et al., 2017). We use data of the Sentinel-2 harmonized collection (Drusch et al., 2012) between 2016 and 2022 at a spatial resolution of 10m. Images are selected by removing granules with a spatial cloud coverage of more than 75% as well as raster cells with a high likelihood of cloud cover. The pixel-specific cloud probability is estimated by the provided cloud probability bitmask band (QA60). NDVI values are calculated from the ratio of reflectance of NIR and red light following (eq.1): 

(eq.1)     〖NDVI〗_S2=((〖NIR〗_S2-〖RED〗_S2 ))/((〖NIR〗_S2+〖RED〗_S2 ) )

where 〖NIR〗_S2 and 〖RED〗_S2 are the spectral reflectance of near-infrared and red light, respectively, as observed by the Sentinel-2 satellite. The created NDVI maps are then aggregated within 15 days intervals of mean NDVI. Thereby, the spatial coverage of acquisition periods with persistent cloud cover is improved. In addition, biases in cell-specific NDVI values are reduced which may result from remaining cloud artefacts, i.e. reflectance values which were incorrectly classified as acquired under clear conditions. We also create binary masks for each aggregated NDVI map which provide the cell-specific number of valid Sentinel-2 images used to derive the 15 days mean NDVI. These binary masks are then used to filter unreliable values from the aggregated 15 days mean NDVI maps. We remove raster cells which are exclusively based on a single valid Sentinel-2 image within the 15 days increment for which the probability of a cloud biased reflectance is relatively high. Eventually, the pixel-specific annual mean NDVI is calculated from all aggregated NDVI maps of the respective year. 

### Land cover assessment
Since multi-seasonal or annual measurements of NDVI values can be biased by variations in vegetation structure or growth, such as crop rotation of agricultural areas, we restrict our remote sensing analysis to areas with no changes in land use throughout the observation period. Therefore, a so-called “stable vegetation” mask is created based on different land-cover classification datasets. To select vegetation areas with no land usage change during the observation period, we compare crop type maps (Blickensdörfer et al., 2022; Schwieder et al., 2022) to classify agricultural areas with no crop rotation and extract forest areas from the ATKIS dataset. Non-vegetated areas, such as populated areas as well as water areas, are also excluded from the NDVI estimation based on the respective spatial classes of the ATKIS dataset. Eventually, all land cover masks are created from the selected vegetation areas, resampled to 10m resolution, and applied to the aggregated 15days NDVI maps of Upper Franconia. 

